# CS255-System-Analysis-and-Design

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
  The client for this projcet was DriverPass, a company seeking to develop a system to provide training to students training for the DMV driver test. The system they wanted us to design was a web-based system which includes a learning management system and an appointment booking system. 

What did you do particularly well?
  I think I did well with my system analysis in building the business requirements document. With our plan-driven approach, all subsequent analysis and design hinges on understanding the system's functional and non-functional requirements. If you misunderstand or are missing a requirement, your system diagrams will be incomplete or have inaccurate steps. I feel I did a good job of identifying and crafting the functional requirements from the design interview with the DriverPass team.

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
  As we progressed through the project, I did revise some of the areas where I received feedback. However, if I were to revise a part of the document, I would revisit the crafting of the non-functional requirements. While I think I did a good job of crafting the functional requirements, the non-functional requirements gave me some more trouble. Many of these concepts were subtle. These requirements will impact the operation of the system and some of the design decisions, so I think I would spend more time revising these requirements. To improve these requirements, I would dig in to more examples from some other BRDs and try to get a more complete understanding of non-functional requirements typical projects include. Once I have these, I would compare back to the DriverPass project and include a more complete listing of non-functional requirements.

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
  I utilized the design interview with the client team several times as I created the functional and non-functional requirements, and the in all of the design diagrams. As I read through, I made sure to highlight any interactions that the users would have with the system. As I crafted the functional requirements and later the use cases and use case diagram, I reread through the diagram and made sure that all use cases are being captured in the analysis and design. 
  User needs are so important to design since, ultimately, they are main clientele of a system. If we don't design with their needs in mind, the system may have frustrating or poor user experience, which leads to unhappy customers. If users are happy with the system, they will continue to use it. Otherwise, the developers will have to employ costly fixes and redesigns to get users to come back to the system.

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
  One technique I utilized in designing this program was to continue to revisit the interview script. In a real-life scenario, I think I'd be using interview scripts such as this one in tandem with the ability to go back to the client and seek additional information. I think getting information directly from the client whereever possible is the best way to ensure that you are getting all the clients requirements into the design decisions. Additionally, I think it is important to iterate through the analysis and design phases before starting with development. I think programmers, myself included, have a tendency to want to jump in immediately and start coding. Without sufficiently planning the design of a system, starting development can lead to poorly crafted code that doesn't meet the client's needs.
  In the future, I plan on utilizing these same techniques in real-world situations. In this scenario, the requirements discussion with the client had already occurred, but one thing I learned from this class was all the ways to collect requirements from the client. I would utilize a combination of these, such as process walkthroughs and document analysis to help define all of the requirements.
